                    Establish regulations on carbon emissions for vehicles
                    Provide tax breaks or rebates for energy efficient imports and Smart Technology
                    Establish emission standards for transportation, incineration, power generation
              Food Security
                    Develop better data acquisition, analysis and distribution systems related to our local
                       food production and availability in agriculture, agroforestry and fisheries
                    Increase local food production to meet growing demand
                    Provided job opportunities for agriculture, fisheries and aquaculture
                    Establish a Central Market
                    Eradicate monkey and fruit flies and other agricultural pests
                    Develop and distribution drought and flood resistant varieties of crops
              Functional Ecosystem
                    Establish storm water regulations to support zero runoff
                    Establish a National Land fill with Waste Segregation Program
                    Upgrade sewerage infrastructure
                    Establish a National Hazardous Waste Disposal Site  -  seek Regional Support to
                       Remove
                    Establish a cradle to cradle waste policy or zero waste policy
              Good Governance
                    Implement Existing Policies for Sustainable land use, Energy, Water, Hazardous
                       materials, Sustainable Finance, Health, Education
                    Implement Recommendation of the Forum Compact Peer Review for Palau
                    Integrate social and natural capitol into the financial and budgeting process
                       Build capacity on economic valuation of n ecosystem services (i.e. carbon
                       sequestration and Carbon Credits)
VII Conclusion
Sustainable Development has been redefined to meet the needs of the people and the plant as follows:
"Development that meets the needs of the present while safeguarding Earth's life-support system, on
which the welfare of current and future generations depends.31 Globalization has united all of us across
the islands, continents, oceans, mountains and valleys and below the sea. Each of us has a responsibility
to the world in order for us all to survive the onslaught of irresponsible behavior that is changing the
world as we know it at a very rapid pace. It is imperative that we all become responsible global citizens in
the daily decisions we make. Palau still faces many challenges as it aims towards universal education and
health, clean accessible water healthy local food and lifestyles, clean energy preservation of its unique
heritage and environment and providing children an opportunity to use their talents and gifts to contribute
to their community and the world. The  challenge  is to keep our Palauness- our unique culture and
environment intact and in balance with new and exciting technologies. The Fundamental principles of
respect need to be woven into the fabric of the world. Scientists are encouraged by Palau's ability adapt
and cope with the changes we face. It is the island way. Together with our committed regional and
national partners we will steer our course towards sustainable development and a better world
31
   Griggs D. 2013. Sustainable Development Goals for People and Planet. Nature 496:305-307
